# *Green Lights*

---

One of the things that most motivates me in programming is seeing all the checkmarks at the end: all of the tests passing, the coverage increasing, the benchmarks decreasing, etc - having an imperical and indisputable measurement of success, and achieving it. So today I'm creating a template repository defining CI jobs for Rust projects. This has certainly been done before; in fact I'm basing my work on Jon Gjengset's video [Setting up CI and property testing for a Rust crate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xUH-4y92jPg&t=3895s), but I'm tailoring the configurations based on my experience and project requirements.

### Dependabot

Jon starts with a [dependabot configuration](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/dependabot-version-updates/configuring-dependabot-version-updates#enabling-github-dependabot-version-updates) - this is a fantastic tool provided by GitHub that compares the versions of a project's dependencies with the latest releases, and creates PRs when an update is available. I made a couple of changes for my configuration:
* I chose to run scans weekly instead of daily. So far I've had three dependabot PRs in the past year; I'm not expecting an inordinate amount of change, nor for the release of my project that includes the update to be time sensitive (excepting security vulnerabilities).
* I chose not to ignore minor semver updates - in general, I don't trust library owners (myself included) to follow semantic versioning perfectly.

### Codecov

The next configuration file is for [Codecov](https://docs.codecov.com/docs/codecov-yaml), another excellent tool that determines how much of the project source code is tested. I modified this file to not cause CI to fail based on the coverage percentage; I intended to judge for myself whether the coverage percentage was sufficient to proceed. My initial motivations were to expedite project startup and to not penalize "generated" code like API structures, though as I'm writing this I'm realizing there are solutions to both of those issues that allow the more rigourous stance. I'll reconsider this another time.

### Check

This file defines a GitHub Action that ensures the code and documentation build successfully. The contents of the file in Jon's repository has changed a bit in the time since the video released. I omit running clippy on beta with the same mentality as for dependabot - I'm not expecting huge changes based on lints, nor do I expect those lint corrections to be time sensitive. I initially discarded the doc, hack, and msrv jobs, but realized they would provide benefits of catching mistakes early and ensuring adherence to Rust conventions.

### Safety

In the video, Jon mentions the safety GitHub Action that runs tools to determine if the project contains Undefined Behavior. While obviously very important, I anticipate this taking some time to integrate - this will probably be a separate topic to cover another time.

### Nostd

Another configuration that is not explored in the video is the nostd GitHub Action. This compiles the code in environments where a standard library and/or allocator do not exist. This is not applicable to every project, and again will probably take time to integrate into my existing repositories - I sense a series of separate topics forming...

### Scheduled

Jon describes scenarios in which CI could fail outside of a PR, which would be caught by compiling the code against newer versions of Rust and against new releases of dependencies. I think dependabot will take care of the dependency issue, especially with it generating PRs (which run all of the CI) for minor semver updates as well as major. Compiling against nightly Rust is an interesting proposition - on one hand, issues are immediately exposed; on the other, this could generate unnecessary noise as development iterates between releases. For the moment I omit this Action.

### Test

The test GitHub Action executes unit tests against both the most recent dependency versions and the minimal dependency versions. Initially I discounted the value of the minimal dependency checks, but again found that semantic versioning is the bane of many programmers. Perhaps the scheduled Action isn't a bad idea after all...
### Conclusion

It looks like I have some more work to do, as far as integrating more of the actions with my existing projects. For now, my template is [rust-ci](https://github.com/eta077/rust-ci), and I've applied it to my [astro-rs](https://github.com/eta077/astro-rs) project. For any questions or comments, please create a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/eta077/yggdrasil/issues/new). Many thanks!
